README.md, before:

## MITRE ATT&CK App for Splunk&reg;

#### Documentation
Detailed documentation can be found at: https://seynur.github.io/DA-ESS-MitreContent/

#### Overview
This application provides compliance and triage dashboards for MITRE ATT&CK Framework with drill-down capabilities. It is recommended to utilize Splunk Enterprise Security(https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/263/) and Splunk ES Content Update (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/3449/); however, starting with version 2.3.0 non-ES deployments are also supported with Alert Manager (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/2665/) integration.

#### Required Splunk Apps:
Starting with version 2.3.0, we added support for non-ES (Enterprise Security App) deployments as well.

One of the following applications is required:
- Splunk Enterprise Security 5.2 or above (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/263/)

    _OR_
- Alert Manager (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/2665/)

For one of the views:
- Sankey Diagram - Custom Visualization (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/3112/)


#### Recommended Splunk Apps:
- Splunk ES Content Update 1.0.40 or above (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/3449/)
- Lookup File Editor (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/1724/)

__Note__: Although the app will work without ES Content Update, it is highly recommended since it comes with many correlation rules that have mitre_attack annotations already.

#### Setup Instructions
After installation of the application you will be on Setup page.  Please enter the API Key if you have one or simply hit Save to continue.  Default view will be the Compliance Dashboard.  If the matrix is not populated, click on the table to run manually, which will direct you to the Lookup Generation dashboard (searches run automatically on that dashboard).

__Note__: If using Alert Manager app, you will need to uncheck ```Use Enterprise Security App``` checkbox within __Setup__ view.

#### Saved Searches
This application comes with predefined saved searches.  Lookup Gen searches are scheduled to run  daily after midnight.  The main ones that are used by views:
- ```MITRE ATT&CK All Rules and Techniques Lookup Gen```: This lookup generator checks currently enabled correlation rules via analytic stories and combines the searches with user-defined mitre_user_rule_technique_lookup.csv file that matches MITRE ATT&CK technique IDs with rules.
- ```MITRE ATT&CK Compliance Lookup Gen```: This lookup generator relies on mitre_all_rule_technique_lookup.csv in order to generate a new lookup to properly display MITRE ATT&CK Compliance martix.


#### Release Notes:
Version 3.0.0
- Date: X Nov 2020
- Feature: Compatibility with ATT&CK Content version 8.0

Version 2.4.0
- Date: 30 Oct 2020
- Feature: New setup view to be compatible with Splunk Cloud
  - Setup.xml replaced by custom javascript.  
- Bug fix: Alert Manager 3.0.4 compatibility issues

Version 2.3.0
- Date: 22 Jun 2020
- Feature: Option to work with plain Splunk Enterprise (no ES requirement)
  - Added macros for flexible deployment option (default is ES app)
  - Updated views to use the macros

Version 2.2.1
  - Date: 22 Jun 2020
  - Bug fix: Removed unused inputs.conf to avoid any confusion.

Version 2.2.0
- Date: 09 May 2020
- Bug fix: Duplication issue for Rule Finder
- Feature: Added option to display compliance matrix without default rules (user-defined/API rules only)
  - Added lookup file definitions
  - Added default rules lookup files for ES 6.1.1 and ESCU 1.0.53 out-of-the-box rules
  - Updated Lookup Generation view
- Feature: Setup.xml for API integration for continuous new rule updates (free service but requires registration)
  - Added custom search command (| getattackdetectionrules)


Version 2.1.0
- Date: 25 Feb 2020
- Added a new view for mapping rules to Techniques
- Updated lookup tables and some searches accordingly

Version 2.0.1
- Date: 12 Feb 2020
- Bug fix for appinspect validation
- Tactics overview displayed as table with updated js and css

Version 2.0.0
- Date: 08 Feb 2020
- Updated lookup tables to correctly define MITRE ATT&CK tactics and techniques
- Introduced a new macro to utilize technique and tactic IDs/names
- Updated dashboards to utilize new lookup table and macro
- Performance improvements
- Updated CSS and JS files
- Introduced a setup view for ease of initial lookup generation

Version 1.3.0
- Date: 09 Jan 2020
- Updated ATT&CK Matrix dashboard
- Added new dashboard for detailed view of triggered rules by notable assets and tactics/techniques
- Improved search performance and dependency on lookups
- Added a new lookup to match correlation rules to MITRE ATT&CK tactics/techniques

Version 1.2.1
- Date: 24 Oct 2019
- Bug fixes with javascript table population
- Ordering of table fields to align with MITRE ATT&CK content

Version 1.2.0
- Date: 24 Aug 2019
- Bug fixes & typos
- Sphinx documentation is added

Version 1.1.0
- Date: 06 Aug 2019
- Bug fixes & typos
- Added descriptions to dashboards
- Added improvements for initial lookup generator

Version 1.0.0
- Date: 25 Jul 2019
- Initial version for Splunkbase
- Test to run on 7.3.0 and ES App 5.3


#### Support
Contact information for reporting an issue: development@seynur.com

For latest fixes/changes: https://github.com/seynur/DA-ESS-MitreContent

Commit message:

Updated rules and techniques lookup gen search

README.md, after:

## MITRE ATT&CK App for Splunk&reg;

#### Documentation
Detailed documentation can be found at: https://seynur.github.io/DA-ESS-MitreContent/

#### Overview
This application provides compliance and triage dashboards for MITRE ATT&CK Framework with drill-down capabilities. It is recommended to utilize Splunk Enterprise Security(https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/263/) and Splunk ES Content Update (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/3449/); however, starting with version 2.3.0 non-ES deployments are also supported with Alert Manager (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/2665/) integration.

#### Required Splunk Apps:
Starting with version 2.3.0, we added support for non-ES (Enterprise Security App) deployments as well.

One of the following applications is required:
- Splunk Enterprise Security 5.2 or above (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/263/)

    _OR_
- Alert Manager (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/2665/)

For one of the views:
- Sankey Diagram - Custom Visualization (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/3112/)


#### Recommended Splunk Apps:
- Splunk ES Content Update 1.0.40 or above (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/3449/)
- Lookup File Editor (https://splunkbase.splunk.com/app/1724/)

__Note__: Although the app will work without ES Content Update, it is highly recommended since it comes with many correlation rules that have mitre_attack annotations already.

#### Setup Instructions
After installation of the application you will be on Setup page.  Please enter the API Key if you have one or simply hit Save to continue.  Default view will be the Compliance Dashboard.  If the matrix is not populated, click on the table to run manually, which will direct you to the Lookup Generation dashboard (searches run automatically on that dashboard).

__Note__: If using Alert Manager app, you will need to uncheck ```Use Enterprise Security App``` checkbox within __Setup__ view.

#### Saved Searches
This application comes with predefined saved searches.  Lookup Gen searches are scheduled to run  daily after midnight.  The main ones that are used by views:
- ```MITRE ATT&CK All Rules and Techniques Lookup Gen```: This lookup generator checks currently enabled correlation rules via analytic stories and combines the searches with user-defined mitre_user_rule_technique_lookup.csv file that matches MITRE ATT&CK technique IDs with rules.
- ```MITRE ATT&CK Compliance Lookup Gen```: This lookup generator relies on mitre_all_rule_technique_lookup.csv in order to generate a new lookup to properly display MITRE ATT&CK Compliance martix.


#### Release Notes:
Version 3.0.0
- Date: X Nov 2020
- Feature: Compatibility with ATT&CK Content version 8.0
  - Updated lookup tables with technique and subtechnique IDs
  - Updated lookup table generator search

Version 2.4.0
- Date: 30 Oct 2020
- Feature: New setup view to be compatible with Splunk Cloud
  - Setup.xml replaced by custom javascript.  
- Bug fix: Alert Manager 3.0.4 compatibility issues

Version 2.3.0
- Date: 22 Jun 2020
- Feature: Option to work with plain Splunk Enterprise (no ES requirement)
  - Added macros for flexible deployment option (default is ES app)
  - Updated views to use the macros

Version 2.2.1
  - Date: 22 Jun 2020
  - Bug fix: Removed unused inputs.conf to avoid any confusion.

Version 2.2.0
- Date: 09 May 2020
- Bug fix: Duplication issue for Rule Finder
- Feature: Added option to display compliance matrix without default rules (user-defined/API rules only)
  - Added lookup file definitions
  - Added default rules lookup files for ES 6.1.1 and ESCU 1.0.53 out-of-the-box rules
  - Updated Lookup Generation view
- Feature: Setup.xml for API integration for continuous new rule updates (free service but requires registration)
  - Added custom search command (| getattackdetectionrules)


Version 2.1.0
- Date: 25 Feb 2020
- Added a new view for mapping rules to Techniques
- Updated lookup tables and some searches accordingly

Version 2.0.1
- Date: 12 Feb 2020
- Bug fix for appinspect validation
- Tactics overview displayed as table with updated js and css

Version 2.0.0
- Date: 08 Feb 2020
- Updated lookup tables to correctly define MITRE ATT&CK tactics and techniques
- Introduced a new macro to utilize technique and tactic IDs/names
- Updated dashboards to utilize new lookup table and macro
- Performance improvements
- Updated CSS and JS files
- Introduced a setup view for ease of initial lookup generation

Version 1.3.0
- Date: 09 Jan 2020
- Updated ATT&CK Matrix dashboard
- Added new dashboard for detailed view of triggered rules by notable assets and tactics/techniques
- Improved search performance and dependency on lookups
- Added a new lookup to match correlation rules to MITRE ATT&CK tactics/techniques

Version 1.2.1
- Date: 24 Oct 2019
- Bug fixes with javascript table population
- Ordering of table fields to align with MITRE ATT&CK content

Version 1.2.0
- Date: 24 Aug 2019
- Bug fixes & typos
- Sphinx documentation is added

Version 1.1.0
- Date: 06 Aug 2019
- Bug fixes & typos
- Added descriptions to dashboards
- Added improvements for initial lookup generator

Version 1.0.0
- Date: 25 Jul 2019
- Initial version for Splunkbase
- Test to run on 7.3.0 and ES App 5.3


#### Support
Contact information for reporting an issue: development@seynur.com

For latest fixes/changes: https://github.com/seynur/DA-ESS-MitreContent
